Fire Wardens
============
Many office buildings have a system of fire wardens. Generally, one employee,
working in each section of the building on every floor, is designated as a fire
warden. Fire wardens usually receive some training and should be well aware of
the evacuation procedure. They are also expected to inform occupants of the
evacuation procedure and to make sure that everyone reaches an area of safety
during an emergency. This kind of system seems to work well because it ensures
that one person will take a leadership role during an emergency, informing the
others and directing them to safety. It may create problems if the person
chosen as the fire warden is not a person with a position of authority in
everyday operations since during an emergency, others might not be willing to
listen to the instructions provided by a warden who is usually in a subordinate
position. Also, the warden should not be a person who frequently has to work
outside the premises, because that person may well be absent during an
emergency. Alternate wardens have to be identified to replace fire wardens who
may be away for holidays, sick leave or other reasons.

Staff Alarm Evacuation (Silent Alarm)
=====================================
There will be some cases where setting off a general alarm for immediate
evacuation is not appropriate. This is due to the mass of people present and
the need for staff to put pre-arranged plans for safe evacuation into action;
overcrowding will disrupt the safe and effective evacuation of everyone in the
premises. In these circumstances, a ‘silent’ staff alarm should be given that
only they are aware of (through the use of fire records, personal pagers,
discreet sounders, or a coded phrase on a public address system, for example),
which will alert them to conduct a phased evacuation and set off a more general
alarm signal when ready. A general alarm may be activated automatically if
manual initiation has not taken place within a pre-determined time.

Vertical/Horizontal Phased Evacuation
=====================================
will allow those who are at a more immediate risk to evacuate the premises
first and temporary delay those who are not. It may be appropriate in these
circumstances to start evacuating only the area closest to the fire and tell
others to stand by. Evacuation of the floor where the fire is situated would be
done first and foremost, as well as the floor above it. Evacuating higher
levels quickly is essential; people could become trapped as the fire continues
to spread upwards.

Simultaneous Evacuation
=======================
It involves everyone exiting the building, in response to the warning signal
given when a fire has been discovered, by walking through the escape routes in
a calm and orderly fashion.

Defend In Place
===============
There will be special circumstances which require the occupants of the building
to stay put and allow the fire brigade to extinguish the fire. Temporary
relocation may take place if possible. Because of how high-risk this strategy
is, you should only plan to use it if you have sought the advice of a competent
person and the fire/rescue services.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Identification of key escape routes
===================================
In premises where members of the public or persons unfamiliar with layout of
the premises are present there should be means available to identify the key
escape routes. They could include schematic drawings and most importantly
emergency escape and exit signs.
